Presentation

Hi, I'm Yan as everyone can see and I'm going to present you 
my project for Personal Portfolio Website.

It's a single page website, created to show my future work 
and some of my training projects or just to be used as a template.
That's why the site had to be able to grow and to evolve but also 
it had to be build as a solid basis for this to happen.

I believe I've achieved that, using the best practices when 
building websites with pure HTML and CSS. My Portfolio also has a 
great performance ratings and is 100% SEO optimised with proper 
meta tags and everything.

The colours I used in the website, I picked from coolers.co - they 
give me a good contrast levels between the text and the background 
of the different elements and they also do not burden the eye of 
the user. I picked the same dark green colour for both the header 
and the footer of my Portfolio Project.

The content of the page is inserted inside a div element with the 
class "body" which uses the CSS Grid. That allows me to easily 
manipulate its view depending on the screen or if i just want to 
make some changes on the overall page flow. Let's say I want to 
make in scroll horizontally instead of vertically or to change 
sometyhing general in the design.

Anyway, let's see the core elements of this webpage - inside the 
body div there is a header, main and a footer.

This is the header, containnig a logo or heading1 - in this case 
h1 - on the left side and it has a navbar on the right side. The 
heading has before and after pseudo classes to make it more 
interesting and interactive - it also realoads the page on click.  
The navigation contains links to the different sections of the 
main element - about, projects and contacts. It also has an icon 
that leads to a Sing in Form.

The first section is also created with CSS Grid to better position 
the element inside it, which was not possible with flexbox for 
example. This section is meant just to wellcome the visitors of the 
page and invite them to explore it. This is the reason I made an 
arrow link - to show them there is more and encourage an action. 
The arrow could also be in greater use if the scroll direction is 
changed at some point but this is just an idea for a different 
version of this template.

In the current view of the website the arrow just changes on 
hover and leads to the next section which contains some info 
about the autor. This section is just informative and is 
separated in two - Achievments and Skills. The first part has a 
height property of 100vh on big screens like the other sections 
linked in the navbar. I also added a light background gradient as 
I thought it would be an interesting design solution for visiual 
transition to the next section. There are embedded font-awesome 
icons with headings and corresponded description. For the Skills 
section I made a skillbar and I added a scrollable background 
image. Achievments section uses only display:grid, while Skills 
has a display:flex but also uses CSS Grid for the skills bar.

The projects section is also build entirely with CSS Grid, 
because it contains many elements which need to be positioned 
properly on different screens. The projects included are inserted 
in divs - they have a background image that scales on hover along 
with the heading, which links to the concrete project. The heading 
also scales separately with before and after pseudo classes styling 
and an easy transition effect to draw attention to this detail, so 
the users knows it's a link ant it actualy does something.

Next section contains the Sign in Form, which has labels 
corresponding to the input fields and a sign in button. The whole 
section is diplayed as flexbox to position the form in the perfect 
center, which by itself has a display:flex for its own elements. 
There is also a scrollable background image for the section and a 
black background with rounded edges and 30% oppacity as a design 
solution in the style of the webpage.

The last section of the main section contains contacts of the 
author - they are inserted in rounded buttons, leading to social 
media profiles and other personal details. Both the section and 
the buttons use flexbox. The text of the button links grows and 
glows on hover with an easy transition and a text shadow property.

It all ends with the footer, which has an auto height and it's 
text is aligned at the center with 100% width so it doesn't need 
to use CSS Grid or flexbox.

These were the most important things you need to know about my 
Personal Portfolio webside. So if I have missed something or you 
have any questions, be my guests.

Thank you for your attention and good look to the others.